# Social Distancing in Theater with Profit Maximization

The aim of this project is to develop a linear programming model which can optimize trade-offs between COVID-19 infection rate and the number of audiences for the performing arts industry (such as plays, musicals, symphony concerts, etc.). The spread of the COVID-19 has resulted in unprecedented global destructive economic damage. The performing arts industry especially is one of the industries that suffered from the gigantic financial losses due to the pandemic. To make matters worse, the industry has been closely associated with the potential risk of spreading the virus since the concert hall or theater is made through enclosed spaces where a large number of audiences fit in, which causes harm to the social distancing, one of the best ways to cope with the pandemic. The issue of minimizing industrial damage and simultaneously minimizing the spread of COVID-19 by providing the social distancing in concert hall or theater seat assignments has emerged. Therefore, the key purpose of the project is to solve linear programming problems that can maximize the profit of theater considering the number of audiences while suggesting concert hall seat assignment methods which can minimize the infectious rate.


This project was inspired by the paper “Social distancing in airplane seat assignments (Salari et al., 2020)” to maximize social distance by solving linear integer programming problems in an enclosed airplane circumstance. Our paper has novelty in maximizing the profit and the risk of exposure to COVID-19 at the same time through bi-objective mixed integer programming. In addition, this project created new variables accustomed to the concert hall environment which was different from airplanes and devised a profit and risk metric that can be used in the concert hall environment, suggesting the best scenario that can maximize the profit and the risk of exposure together.

edit_test